Data analytics template
================

<!-- WARNING: THIS FILE WAS AUTOGENERATED! DO NOT EDIT! -->

Initialize new repository using this template. Use this document as base
for your projects documentation.

This file will become your README and also the index of your
documentation.

# Install

Initialize new repository using this template. Use this README as base
for your projects documentation.

# Prequisites

python, pip, pip-tools

Optional:

- Docker desktop 4.15.0 (93002)
- Visual studio code
  - VSC 1.74.0
  - VSC Dev Containers Extension v0.245.2 (latest version has issues
    with MacOS & M1)

# Getting started:

## Setup git repository using template

0.  (Create [GitHub account](https://github.com/) if you do not have one
    already.
1.  Sign into your GitHub homepage
2.  Go to
    [github.com/City-of-Helsinki/analytics_template](https://github.com/City-of-Helsinki/analytics_template)
    and click the green button that says ‘Use this template’.
3.  Give your project a name. Do not use the dash symbol ‘-’, but rather
    the underscore ’\_’, because the name of the repo will become the
    name of your Python module.
4.  If you are creating a project for your organization, change the
    owner of the repo. From the drop down bar, select your organization
    GitHub account (e.g. City-of-Helsinki). You need to be included as a
    team member to the GitHub of the organization.
5.  Define your project publicity (you can change this later, but most
    likely you want to begin with a private repo).
6.  Click ‘Create repository from template’

## Development environment setup

### Codespaces

If your organization has
[Codespaces](https://github.com/features/codespaces) enabled (requires
GitHub Enterprise & Azure subscription), you can do development using
Visual Studio Code and you are now ready to begin development. Just
launch the repository in a codespace, and a dev container is
automatically set up!

### Local vscode with python

Open cloned repository folder in Visual Studio Code. Try to execute any
python script. Virtual environment installation will be prompted.

### Manual installation in local environment:

1.  Create virtual environment: `python3 -m venv venv`
2.  Activate virtualenv: `source venv/bin/activate`
3.  Install pip-tools: `pip install pip-tools`
4.  Compile requirements:
    `pip-compile --upgrade --generate-hashes --allow-unsafe --resolver=backtracking -o requirements.txt requirements.in dev-requirements.in`
5.  Install requirements: `pip-sync requirements.txt`
6.  Create an ipython kernel for running the notebooks:
    `python -m ipykernel install --user --name python38myenv`

# Development

## Data

Store your local data under data-folder. It is excluded from version
control to keep your data safe.

## Notebooks

Do your analytisc work in nbs/00_core.ipynb Define your readme in
nbs/index.ipynb

## Readme

Compile index-notebook to readme using command:

        nbdev_readme

## Nbdev

### Using shared python code between notebooks

Use nbdev_export to export your python modules for other notebooks to
use.

        nbdev_export

### Before committing

Run nbdev_clean to remove metadata from notebooks for cleaner commits.

        nbdev_clean

## Dependencies

Add library dependencies to requirements/requirements and use
pip-compile to construct requirement.txt. File dev-requirements.in is
intended for project development environment requirements. Use
update_requirements.sh to compile requirements.txt.

## How to use

Fill me in please! Don’t forget code examples:

``` python
1+1
```

    2
